
Karl decided not to share the burden with anyone else. He hoped he'd somehow manage to bear it, that he'd get to the bottom of this slow atrophy of reality... and maybe even prevent it. He visited a succession of scientists and delved into conspiracy theories...

Meanwhile, the streets grew deserted and the urban infrastructure disappeared. Even the topographical features of the land sank into oblivion, one after another. Hills, lakes, the nearby forest. Those people who still remained had no idea that what was around them was no more than a wretched stub of reality. In fact, that was what triggered the greatest terror in Karl. He was like someone who was afflicted with Alzheimer's disease and sinking into an ever more profound depression, yet the difference here was that it wasn't memory after memory which was vanishing... here, it was element after element of the world.

He thought of his parents with growing frequency, particularly of his father. We don't recollect a much-loved person who is dead as they were in their prime, in their youth, burgeoning with life and health. We'd like to, but that's not how it works. If we were with someone like that to the end, then we'll always remember them as weak, shrunk by disease or by age... or by both..., incapable of performing even the most straightforward of activities unaided.

And that's when we're lucky. Because sometimes we don't even recall our deceased nearest and dearest as they were in life at all. For if it so happens that we're there at their death, then that crushing sight will stay with us for ever and it overpowers, conquers and smothers the earlier, good and happy memories.

They say that the warriors of yore would rather die on the field of battle than of old age in their beds. This is ascribed to the categories of heroism and courage. Karl didn't believe it had anything to do with either the one or the other. On the contrary. They'd simply known all too well which was the more dreadful... to die, infirm and decrepit, of old age or suddenly, in battle. So this had by no means been heroism, but a *de facto *escape.

He'd always wondered whether, if he were to meet a sudden death, in an accident, for instance, he'd die with a cry of 'Oh, God\!' or of 'Fucking hell\!' However, once he'd finally decided that he was going to go out on his own terms and avail himself of the 9 mm Luger P08 that had been in their family for generations... it turned out that \[1he went without a single word\].

