I dont understand you at all, Judith said irritably. Sometimes you say youre good at it and other times you complain that your writings a waste of space. Its senseless.

Karl was sitting at the table by the window and gazing out, idly watching their obese neighbour from the house opposite. She was trying to catch her Yorkshire terrier and, given the shape she was in, her efforts were commendable. However, her miniature pet had the urge to enjoy a taste of freedom and, at the same time, it was remarkably agile.

Theres nothing contradictory about it, he said contemptuously. I write poorly, but everyone else is considerably worse than I am. In fact, thats what sickens me. The books sell, so apparently Im good, though the truth is that its none of my doing at all.

Arrogant arsehole\! Judiths anger was unfeigned. You wouldnt recognise good literature even if it stripped off its thong and sat on your face\!

Karl recognised that this was an excellent moment to change the topic.

Listen, Ive been meaning to ask you something all day. What happened to your beloved daub that used to hang on the wall there?

Judith looked at him in surprise.

What daub? That walls never had anything hanging on it.

Karl was so astonished that he had absolutely no idea how to respond.

The sound of a car horn blared out, followed by the squeal of tyres... and one more squeal... of pain and terror... almost drowning out the first. The Yorkie had run straight under the wheels of an approaching car.

Karl got up from the table.

Im going upstairs, he remarked. Maybe Ill manage to get a bit of work done.

 Hed always preferred happy endings.