The following day, Karl was contentedly taking part in a traditional drinking session with his brother. He was planning to question him about the vanishing painting while they were at it, although he didnt quite know why it was bothering him so much.

They were sitting on the veranda of Antons house in the suburbs and sipping cognac.

The difference between pt with bacon and bacon with pt needs settling once and for all.

Top em up.

During one of the top-ups, Karl turned to the topic of the daub, describing it in a fair amount of detail.

But... what painting? Anton looked genuinely surprised. No, I dont remember any picture. I mean, I wouldnt forget a monstrosity like that.

The moment of conversation left Karl completely confused. 

Im at an utter loss to understand how thats possible. He mused for a moment, then continued, speaking partly to himself. Im certain weve even got some photos of a party at our place somewhere and you can see the wall with that picture on it in them. This is probably the strangest thing thats happened to me recently. Exactly like an antithesis to *deja vu*. He took a large swig of his drink. Something was there and its gone... Maybe space-time is collapsing, he said with a laugh.

I dont know what youre muttering about there. Anton wasnt convinced. Time is time, it runs linearly. We see that every day, he added, topping their glasses up again.

Thats not necessarily the case. Not at all. Karl spoke calmly, even though his brothers irritated resistance was beginning to make itself felt... and so was the cognac hed already drunk. It was going to his head with a vengeance now. It could be a bit like the sun. How do we perceive it? Because of our limitations, it seems to us that the sun moves in relation to the earth... that it travels from east to west, even though thats not what happens at all. And maybe humans limited perception also triggers the impression of the linearity of time, whereas, in fact, it might be a random collection of small fragments, for instance, like a mirror shattered into myriad shards, with each one containing the reflection of a part of reality. When the shards are similar to one another, that might be exactly where the impression of *dj vu*, comes from, for example, or an automatic aversion or attraction to someone weve just met... or my anti-*deja-vu*... 

He smiled to himself.

My God, you have to give up drinking, said Anton. But from tomorrow.  And for now, top em up.