The following day, Karl had little time to ponder over the affair of the vanishing masterpiece, since he had to devote himself entirely to work. The publishers deadline was closing in and his book was still a long way from being finished. Finally, he decided to present the publisher with a typewritten draft version in order to be able to prove that hed undertaken some kind of activity with a view to fulfilling his contract. In general, he tried to behave honestly, not so much to meet the demands of his conscience, but more for the comfortable sense of being superior to others that it gave him. But, as he always said, All those who are honest live short, impecunious lives, without the respect of their nearest and dearest, adding, after a customary, and effective pause, Short... if theyre lucky.

He decided to go for a stroll through the town centre, a notion the sunny weather was conducive to. On such occasions, he was in the habit of eavesdropping on the conversations of passers-by. He found the sentences and phrases torn from their context fascinating.

They came up with these smartphones, a guy said feverishly to his corpulent friend, and people dont delete their text messages any more. They often save the whole correspondence... I checked recently and, over the course of the entire relationship, she and I exchanged exactly seven hundred messages. Shit\! A fucking seven-hundred-text-message romance\!

...dont talk rubbish. Representative democracy is like representative eating or having representative sex, a handsome, middle-aged blonde woman declaimed into her phone. No. Absolutely not\! You might just as well say that, if were going to eliminate global warming, then we need to turn on more fridges, because then itll get colder. Idiot\! She laughed, clearly amused by the reaction of the person on the other end of the call.

Karl made his way unhurriedly along a street lined with buildings on both sides, savouring the crisp morning and listening in on the products of the randomly encountered human minds. However, there came a moment when he noticed that something was wrong. The row of buildings to either side of him had unexpectedly stopped; on the spot where, only the day before, one of the towns largest shopping centres had stood, there was now nothing but an empty, grassy square.

He started running from side to side, searching for a sign, any sign, of the previous days presence of the building. Nothing. Not a trace. In the initial impulse of the moment, he wanted to ask the first passer-by he came across about the phenomenon, but for some unfathomable reason he had a clear sense of what he would hear in reply. In the end, he got himself under control. After all, he couldnt just stand there on the smooth lawn for ever.

Excuse me... The hot-dog seller stood here every day, on the other side of the street. He must have seen what had happened. Wheres the shopping centre gone? Have they carried out some kind of controlled demolition? But this fast...? Wheres the rubble...?

The hot-dog seller gazed at him with growing astonishment and animosity. He clearly had Karl down as a madman.

Come on, mate, there aint never been nuffink like that ere, not in all the fourteen years I been workin this patch. Get outta here, youre scarin me customers off\!

Once his first attack of panic had retreated, Karl realised that the time had come to make a decision. What next? How was he going to handle what was happening? What attitude was he going to take to these events? He could see two options; admit that he was, in fact, probably insane and  see a psychiatrist or recognise that, actually, something bad really was going on and  try to get some advice from a scientist.