On the way home, he studied his surroundings intently; he had an overpowering impression that there were fewer people around than usual. Inwardly, he was counting on the fact that it only seemed that way to him. He was also seriously concerned about Judiths fate. Would he find her at home when he got back? What did it matter that she sometimes irritated him? Perhaps recent events had opened his eyes but, be that as it may, he now knew that hed certainly never meet anyone else like her again. Besides, he recognised that a bit of an intellectual set-to got the blood flowing.

Just let her be safe and sound, God... he thought in terror as he slowly grasped the door handle. God, help me... and if you dont exist, thatd be out-and-out shittiness on your part.

Ah! Here you are! Judith opened the door to him; shed heard him fumbling ineffectively at the lock. I was beginning to wonder what youd got sucked into.

Karl wouldnt have been able to describe the relief he felt even if hed tried. But he didnt. He simply pulled Judith to him and hugged her as hard as he could.

Youre suffocating me, you lunatic! She laughed. Im glad to see you, too. Come on, come inside now.

Over the next few days, Karl got over his recent trying experiences and did his utmost to forget about the strange events and live normally. To make the most of what he had. Previously, he probably hadnt really realised just how important his home, his work on his succession of books, his conversations with Judith and at times, even his arguments with her, were to him.

Judith sometimes questioned him about his pursuit of fiction.

Why do you actually need to create different stories? And when youre not writing anything, then youre reading again, or watching a whole heap of films, serials, series...? Is it some kind of escapism?

Karls reply would invariably involve the same explanation.

I simply believe that lifes too short. The awareness of inevitable death generates an imperative in me to prolong life by every possible means. Even if its only an ostensible prolongment. Writing and reading and watching are the ways I absorb other peoples lives, the fictional and the possible alike. Every story is someones life... and I can observe it, do you see? I can experience it together with the central character. I dont know what awaits me after death... eternal nothingness, possibly. In comparison to that, my one brief life is definitely not nearly enough. Its outrageously inadequate. So fictions my way of compensating for my forthcoming non-existence. You never know when the worlds going to end.

Sometimes, that was enough to satisfy her and shed walk away, bored... as she underscored with a smile... by the sad bullshitting of an unfulfilled intellectual. But there were also times when she took up the topic.

I think the same thing applies to history, you know... as the knowledge of it in the making. Look how much information we have that, perhaps, we unconsciously treat as memories of a kind. We know what happened in the Middle Ages, in antiquity... Thanks to reconstructions, documentaries and, damn it, even thanks to bullshit costume dramas and bodice rippers, we have a kind of picture of what those people looked like, of their customs and of how they spoke. Knowledge of the standards of medicine and hygiene of those times... and of the cuisine... even enables us to imagine the smell of a given era. We didnt live then, but we have a different impression, because, after all, in this way, were remembering everything. When you think about it... how vast our lives have become thanks to that. How far they extend in time!

I agree. Thats the first half of the problem. Because, to use your description, we extend our lives in both directions. Yes, wed most certainly like to *have* lived for ever, but besides that, wed also wish eternal life for ourselves in the sense of living *from* now for all time. So, in mind, if not in body, we squeeze ourselves as far as possible into the future. Hence futurology. Hence sci-fi. They give us the sense that we know what the world will be like in the future... they extend our lives forward. Thats why I write. Even though hardly anyone at all reads it.

 Dont exaggerate. I did see what they wrote about that piece from several years back, you know... that its a cult novel.

It seems that, if you wait long enough, then even shit will obtain a noble patina. Anyway, the flourishing of a so-called cult isnt so much the upshot of either an authors efforts or the quality of a work; its more a result of the activity of the readers minds.

One day, Karl was looking through some old documents, searching for his father's death certificate, but it was nowhere to be found. He phoned the register office which had issued it.

I sorry, but Im afraid I have no information on the matter." The clerks voice held an edge of suspicion that Karl was sadly all too familiar with now. You must have the wrong branch. If anything at all had been dealt with here, thered certainly be some trace of it.

So, in the tenuous hope that it was, indeed, a mistake, Karl phoned the hospital which had issued the medical certificate of death.

No. Unfortunately not. Listening to the voice of the doctor on duty as it came through the phone, Karl mechanically envisaged a short, bald man. He started wondering if someone could sound bald. There are no notes at all and no medical history. No one of that name has ever been treated here. Goodbye.

After Karl had visited several other public institutions, it became clear that neither his father nor his mother had ever existed at all. There was no record of them, no documentation concerning them whatsoever. Karl felt that he couldnt bear this much longer, that he might do himself some harm. The time had clearly come to decide whether or not to involve someone else in the matter. He knew he couldnt cope with it alone any longer. He weighed it up in his mind. Should he [9tell his brother everything and ask him to help]? But maybe it would be better [0not to risk that]...? You never know... maybe Anton wouldnt believe him and would take the entire story for a symptom of a serious mental illness...?
