
Anton didn't utter a word for a long moment. And then he stayed quiet a bit longer.

Finally, he spoke. "I don't know how I'm supposed to respond to this. I mean, we've always been orphans. Our parents' identities were never established."

"That's absurd\! They both lived to a ripe old age\!" Karl was having a serious problem with staying calm. However, he did what he could not to seem like a frenzied madman. "Father died of cancer ten years ago, two days after his eightieth birthday."

"Have you... have you got any photos of them? Documents...? Bloody hell, man, anything at all?\!"

"No\! That's exactly the problem\! Everything that's connected with an object that disappears is also subject to utter disintegration, including all memory of it."

"...but this doesn't apply to you."

Karl sighed resignedly.

"It doesn't apply to me... and I don't know why that is. I'm trying to get to the bottom of it. But I can't take it any longer... I think I might have to shoot myself in the head. We had parents, we had a happy childhood, we lived with them until we were twenty or thereabouts... I mean, I lived with them till then, because you only moved away from Mother thirteen years later, you loser," Karl laughed unintentionally.

"Yes, that's me down to the ground," Anton said, his face twisting in a cynical smile. He could see that his brother was in a wretched psychological state and he didn't want to risk leaving him alone in his bizarre questing. "I'm not saying I believe you. But I'm not saying I won't help you, either. One way or another, we'll get through this together. Like we've got through everything else. What do you suggest we should do next, then?"

Karl heaved an evident sigh of relief. "Right now, I'm giving some thought to conspiracy and parascientific theories." He'd clearly acquired new energy for the task. "Since rationalism's failed me for the time being, we might as well look for answers somewhere else. It can't hurt."

"You could be right. Scientists are a bit like public officials. Bureaucrats have an irksome characteristic; they continually try to describe everything. Take any example you like. Works of art. I can just see a pen-pusher compiling a catalogue... or drawing up a parliamentary bill concerning the nation's heritage... and describing Vel'azquez's *Surrender of Breda* down to the very last detail. It's kind of... dehumanising." 

Anton thought for a moment before continuing. 

"Or, even better... Pierre Schaeffer's *musique concr`ete*," he chuckled. "Of course. There's a multitude of works where any attempt whatsoever to describe them verbally... even a successful one... immediately distorts the work's meaning, significance and purpose absolutely. In a case like that, a verbal description simultaneously becomes a deformation."

Karl mused over his brother's words for a moment. Then he took up the conversational thread.

"OK. \[AWe could talk to a group postulating the existence of the Mandela effect\]. You could say they believe that alternate realities overlap and that people unknowingly percolate between them. Something else that'd be apt are the kind of \[Bsects that believe the world is simply a computer game\]. I've seen their members hanging around in the streets several times, wearing cybergothic outfits and clutching weird banners. And maybe we should also look into the conspiracy theories which say that the Moon's made of cheese."

Anton laughed, though a touch nervously.

"I know a woman who's involved in creationist theory," he said. Perhaps we should check whether, perchance, \[Cthe Lord God Himself isn't punishing us\]?"

