At home, Karl continued to reflect on the events of the day. A return to the consideration of scientific paths seemed essential. He knew a couple more physicists... and, in order not to be deemed a lunatic, he could present the whole affair as a story. He could tell a barefaced lie and say that he needed another series of consultations regarding one of his sci-fi books.

In the end, he concluded that he didnt have the time for half measures and that hed go for broke. However, rather than a brilliant theorist, he chose an excellent practitioner... Doctor Vloshin. And he lied through his teeth on the phone.

Doctor Vloshin? Its Karl. Yes. Could you listen... Well, no, its not exactly a consultation this time. Actually, think what you like, as long as you solve the problem, because what Ive got for you today is an unusual matter, but a highly lucrative one. Please imagine a hypothetical situation where realitys fading away for some reason. I dont know. No, I havent got a clue... youre the physicist, so Im asking you to come up with something. Yes. Its about urgently developing a way of connecting every single object of reality stably so as to prevent its irrevocable disintegration. And Im leaving that to you. A model, a formula, a machine... anything. I know youre busy, but Ive saved the best for last... you can set your own price for the job. What? Yes. Absolutely... ask as much as you like. Of course I can afford it. Just accept that Ive received a legacy from an aunt. Thats right. Fucking rich. OK. So Ill be waiting for your call. Roll up your sleeves and get on to it\!

I shouldve flashed a roll of banknotes at once, Karl thought, as he ended the call. Even those imaginary ones. Ill worry about paying later. But what Vloshin doesnt know cant hurt him. And if he fails...,  then I wont be worrying about anything at all any more.