Karl couldnt goad himself into any kind of action whatsoever. He was scarcely even capable of dragging himself from the bed... and he was aware of the fact that this wasnt because he was excessively drunk. Mind you, it honestly had to be admitted that his condition was a long way from sober. He just wanted everything to be over.

The nights were the worst, because most of the stars had vanished now, while the Moon had ceased to exist the previous week. It seemed as if the universe was caving in on itself, with the centre of the collapse being the Solar System, or even Earth itself. Could what they said be true... that the universe doesnt exist without an observer? Alcohol was hampering Karls thinking. For a long moment, he couldnt recall the name of the scientist he and Vloshin had once talked about. Ah, yes, that was it... Schrdinger. Erwin Schrdinger, his fucking cat and his interpretation of the principles of quantum mechanics. Some tosh about the behaviour of elementary particles that exist simultaneously in every possible physical location. But, specifically... only until the moment when the fact of measurement or, quite simply, of observation, occurs. Only when a cognisant observers attention turned to those particles would this cause a given particle to assume one defined state. In Vloshins opinion, this meant that reality couldnt exist without an observer, while a person cognisant of nothing would... Godlike or, at the very least, demiurge-like... summon reality into being by their cognisance and the very act of observing. Or... keep it tightly reigned in and protect it from disintegration...?

The light switch on the wall was definitely quite a distance away from Karl, but such was the darkness now that it would be difficult even to aim the bottle accurately at his mouth, let alone grope around for it on the bedside table. In the situation that had arisen, any loss of booze at all, no matter what the quantity, assumed disaster proportions, which is why Karl did, in fact, make an effort and finally managed to turn on the light. He didnt know how his glance happened not to fall on the bedside table holding the bourbon, but on the writing desk where he kept his weapon. He slowly opened the drawer. The pistol hadnt vanished yet; it was still lying there.

Karl took a healthy pull from the bottle... healthy enough to set his head spinning, so he collapsed onto the bed. Lying there, he recalled a daft conversation hed had with his brother not long before.

Do you sometimes wonder whether you've already bought your Deathbed? Anton had asked.

How do you mean?

Well, you know, said Anton, with a chuckle, when you buy a new bed at our age, its not inconceivable that itll last you to the end of your life.

Karl gazed at the pistol in his hand and then  made his bed his Deathbed.