On the way to the municipal offices, Karl was struck with terror when he noticed that, here and there, the ground had opened up into sprawling holes that gaped onto a black void. He presumed that, at the very least, certain laws of physics werent functioning in those sable regions, since objects large and small were floating there... sticks and stones, but also paving stones, street lights and other elements of the towns infrastructure. There were birds or insects above some of the holes, desperately flapping their wings in an ineffective attempt to get away and take flight. It looked as if a state of weightlessness held sway both inside the holes and above them.

Karl carefully avoided these anomalies and slowly headed towards his destination. He had no taste for contact with the authorities and their representatives. His spirit was more that of an anarchist. In his view, the state as an institution had the nature of an organised crime outfit; it extorted money from people and, in return, offered them services in name only... like the illusion of protection, for instance, this primarily being protection from the state itself, which, just like organised crime, harasses and persecutes those who dont want to pay.

The municipal office building was still there, although the structure hadnt remained untouched. The main entrance lay to the left, but one of the great, black holes had opened up in the earth to the right and so the entire section of the building that had stood on that spot had vanished. The impression this gave was as if a ravenous giant had bitten out a chunk of it... the structure of the interior walls, the floors and various rooms was visible from afar. Even the handful of remaining employees could be seen, wandering around the rooms without the slightest awareness of the singularity of their situation.

Once Karl went into the building, it turned out that there were even more black holes inside. These were smaller and the clerks making their way hither and thither walked round them with a display of uncommon indifference, to say nothing of agility. Karl was delighted to note the fact that the head of the Population Records and Identity Papers Department still existed. He was a middle-aged man, rather unkempt and more disadvantaged than blessed by Nature when his genes were drawn from the pool.

... that is correct, he said. We hold the records of every birth and death. At present, our metropolis has fifty-four residents.

Fifty-... four? Karl actually choked on the words. Dont you have the impression thats really rather a small population for a... metropolis?

I dont quite follow your meaning. I dont see anything in the data that departs from the norm.

You public servants never notice anything thatd be inconvenient for you, Karl muttered to himself. However, it seemed he hadnt spoken as quietly as he thought, because the head of department looked at him askance.

Youve no great liking for us, eh? he asked. Maybe youve got something to hide from the authorities...?

Ah, you see! Suspicion raises its head after an exchange of just a few sentences. No, I dont like you. And Ill tell you one thing. Just imagine this; one person shoots another with a firearm and the person whos been shot simply dies. And now imagine that one person grabs a big, thick, heavy stick and beats another person up with it, battering that persons head, their torso, their legs, their genitals, beating them mercilessly, on and on. And, as a result of that unimaginable, interminable torture, the person whos being beaten finally dies. And now, would you kindly explain just how inhuman, how downright diabolical the legislation must be when assault and battery resulting in a death is treated more leniently than a murder committed on the spot?! This is not the law - it's the codified lawlessness! Karl was genuinely shaking. He had the impression that he couldnt count on help from anywhere now.

But anarchy inevitably leads to tyranny in the end, the philosophical official said. Then he added, And after what youve just been yelling here, Im seriously considering whether or not I should report you to the police. You might represent a danger. The fact that youre in a very poor mental state is clear to the naked eye.

Go on then, report me! Karl snarled and marched out of the building. He stood in the midst of the wasteland outside for a moment and wondered what else he could do. Professor Benedikt, the last of the scientists Karl had consulted about his books, was an eccentric old man, to be sure... providing the venerable scholar still existed, that is..., but it looked as if [Kall the other options had now been exhausted].
